My name is Likith from first year, ECE.

I have been into computers and coding right from my childhood like from my class 6. I have learnt basics of MS DOS and very basic stuff of HTML in class. Then there was a gap for two years and then the real part of coding started in my class 11 where I had to learn C++. Despite having JEE coaching, we still had to learn it. To be honest, I was really bad in the beginning and I almost failed sometimes. That wasn't because I am incapable of coding, but I did not give much importance for it as there was JEE alongside. The turning point was we had a couple of weeks before boards and then I realised how simple it was. And then we C in first semester which was almost like C, wasn't a big thing. I have been taking a course in python in Udemy and now I am pretty good with the basics.

Coming to the inductions, I have applied to WebDev, AppDev and SysAd. I am completely new to all these fields and really had no knowledge about the languages and stuff used to code these. I believe logical thinking is more important than knowing many languages and so I thought of giving a try for these. To be honest its not that I have a die-hard passion for coding, I just have more experience in coding and I'm comparatively better than fair share of people and I want to put this advantage to proper use.

I started with WebDev first and trying to finish it as fast as possible and go for AppDev. I am completely new to web development and had to start from scratch. I first made myself comfortable with HTML. I went through some links given in the inductions website and then found a playlist of Basics of HTML by Net Ninja. That gave me enough idea how I must be applying for the given task. That was quite easy. CSS was next thing to be learnt and a found a playlist ny Net Ninja. But that was very big with around 50 lectures, and I knew I don't have enough time and then consulted the mentor and then I was instructed to just learn the styles that are required for the task. For that I went through some videos which gave me an idea how the plot of the game to be designed. For JavaScript, I am going with the playlist given in the induction’s website. I have not completely finished learning JS, but I am getting a brief idea where JS is going to help and how it is going to be applied. 

Coming to task, I read the task only after I became aware of the basics. Then I planned the plot of website how it should look like on a rough paper. Then made an idea what to be done in HTML, CSS and I understood remaining stuff like getting the inputs from user, processing the data and adding timer etc will be taken care by JS which I have to still make myself comfortable with. I hope I do it on time. Coming to AppDev, I have not still started work on it, I will be going for that once I am done with WebDev and the same with SysAd.

One thing I learnt from this induction process is that everything is freely available on the internet, lot of interesting and cool stuff. We just need proper guidance, dedication and a target and it was not actually difficult all the way till now. Maybe if there was more time, I would be doing same thing much better.

